What?
I've seen that look before.
Ensign Murphy
had better watch out.
that Murphy is seeing
I happen to know
one of the Delaney sisters.
Not since Harry and Tom Paris
made their move.
the Delaney sisters?
Harry and
He would have told me.
I guess there are some things
he keeps to himself.
Harry...
and the Delaney sisters?
is it true about you
Is what true?
Come on, Harry.
There aren't any secrets
on a ship this small.
What have you been
telling people?
trip to Venice with them.
Well, we did take that
The holodeck?
KIM:
to be kidding.
You got
That lasted
all of 15 minutes.
I've been meaning to ask you.
Yeah, you know,
you and Jenny Delaney
What happened when
in that gondola?
disappeared
Nothing.
Harry, we're your friends.
You can tell us.
Nothing.
We... talked.
And then...
I fell over the side.
You fell out of
the gondola?
wasn't quite prepared
I think maybe Harry
Jenny Delaney can be.
for how voracious
I think it's finally
beginning to happen.
Both crews getting along.
should improve performance
That kind of bonding
and maximize efficiency.
Yes, I'm sure it will.
Bridge to Captain Janeway.
CHAKOTAY:
Go ahead.
Captain, we're receiving
a distress call
in one of the lower
subspace bands.
I'm on my way.
This is it.
Thanks.
Report, Commander.
distress signal's
The subspace
coming from a vessel
bearing 125 mark 21.
200,000 kilometers.
Distance:
Captain...
sensors indicate five
life-forms aboard.
The vessel is altering
its course to intercept us.
and slow to impulse.
Go to Yellow Alert
Hail them, Mr. Kim.
Aye, Captain.
This is Captain Kathryn Janeway
of the Federation
starship Voyager.
What is the nature
of your emergency?
We have no emergency.
But you're sending out
a distress call.
Yes, we are.
Why?
Because you are in distress.
of the planet Sikaris.
I am Gathorel Labin
Please, let us welcome you
to our system,
show you the hospitality
of our people.
That's very kind of you...
If I could come aboard
your ship,
I have gifts for you
you will find irresistible.
and a proposal I hope
Mr. Tuvok, make
the necessary arrangements
to receive our guest.
( humming softly )
Ah...
Mr. Labin, it really
isn't necessary
of this trouble.
to go to all
Please, call me Gath.
I would like nothing better
And I promise you,
than to prepare a few of our
newest delicacies for you.
Ah, this will
be perfect.
lunch in less than two hours.
Uh-uh, Captain, I'm serving
We won't be long, Neelix.
This is Mr.--
This is Gath.
He's from Sikaris.
Ooh, Sikaris.
Do you know the planet?
Only stories about their
incredible hospitality.
Tell me, how do
you know about us?
very well-traveled.
Our people are
brought back stories
Some of them have
about the ship
of aliens
from another part
of the galaxy--
People lost and alone,
their way home again.
struggling to find
This is wonderful.
come and meet you,
And I decided to
and offer you respite.
Respite?
if you will.
A vacation,
Get away from the confines
of the ship,
of our landscape,
enjoy the beauty
meet and talk with interesting,
learn-ed people.
And the crew would
certainly welcome
a little shore leave,
Captain.
And I hear the Sikarians
have a huge variety
of edible plants.
If we could
collect some seeds,
we'd expand our selection
significantly.
would increase performance
Sounds like all this
and maximize efficiency.
Don't you think,
Mr. Tuvok?
Indeed.
Well, Gath, looks like
you're getting visitors.
We'll set a course
and follow you in.
I could not be happier.
anything you like,
If you see
GATH:
just let me know.
What is this material?
It's so delicate.
Exquisite, isn't it?
It's the latest import
from Dedestris.
the petals of a flower
It's spun from
only in moonlight.
that blooms
a dress made for you?
Shall I have
It's lovely,
but, no... thank you.
for you to accept a gift?
Is it so hard
All right,
but something small.
Maybe a scarf?
What a curious people
you are.
Tell me,
would it help if I said
that you could have
an entire wardrobe
beautiful fabrics,
made from these
and that it would give
all of us pleasure
to create it for you?
Let's...
start with the scarf.
As you like.
you prefer, huh?
Which cloth do
( tones chiming )
That's beautiful.
Are you a musician?
musical instrument.
This isn't a
It's an atmospheric sensor.
The frequency of the chimes
in weather conditions.
indicates changes
Then it must work
on a principle
of non-linear resonance,
adjusting
to the dynamic variables
in the atmosphere.
That's exactly right.
Are you a scientist?
In a sense.
how to operate it?
Can you show me
I'd be happy to.
First, you have
to initialize
the sub-harmonic mode.
( tones chiming )
( laughs )
Mm-hmm.
Oh, I think this one.
wearing that scarf,
When I see you
my pleasure will be
greater than yours.
Well, I should get back.
But with your permission,
I'd like to start
organizing teams
to gather plants
and seeds.
This is my associate,
Jaret Otel.
You may contact him
to make
any necessary
arrangements.
We'll be glad to assist you
in any way, Captain.
I'll find my officers,
and we'll return
to the ship.
Tonight, we are having
a celebration here.
I hope you and your officers
will be my guests.
We'd be delighted.
Stardate 48642.5.
Captain's Log,
The crew is enjoying an evening
on Sikaris.
to their delight, that reports
They are discovering,
of this species' hospitality
have not been exaggerated.
...so the whole thing exploded,
KIM:
and there we were,
70,000 light-years from home,
and no way to get back.
Felt pretty lonely.
That's a very noble story.
Noble?
Mm-hmm. Stories
can be whimsical
or frightening
or-or melancholy
or many other things,
but noble stories
are the ones
affect our lives.
that can most
your permission
May I have
to tell others
this story?
Sure.
It's no secret.
an essential part
But stories are
of every person's being.
I would never share one
without permission.
Go right ahead.
I've got a few others too.
You do?
Come with me.
I know a private place
where you can tell me
all your stories.
Stand close to me.
Alastria.
( chuckles )
Mm...
Where are we?
The woods of Alastria.
My favorite place.
I usually come here
to spend time alone,
when I want
it seemed right to bring you.
but tonight, it...
Now...
tell me your stories.
All of them.
Why is it so much
warmer here?
What is that?
The dawn zephyr.
Dawn? We just got here.
( sighs )
That's... that is
an amazing feeling.
What... what's happening?
The erosene winds--
passion winds...
come just before the dawn.
creates euphoria.
The erosene
I'll say.
Why am I seeing two suns?
Because this is
a binary system.
But your planet
only has one sun.
But Alastria has two.
Eudana...
Hmm?
Where are we?
I told you...
Alastria--
a system far from Sikaris.
How far?
Do you have to ask
all these questions?
Please, it's important.
two and a half billion times
Alastria is about
the distance between
Sikaris and its sun.
That's almost...
40,000 light-years.
Mmm...
Now...
( wind blowing softly )
...feel the breeze.
Um, we have to go back.
It's still night on Sikaris.
We have plenty of time.
No. Um...
we're going back.
And I need you
to tell me everything you know
about that platform
that got us here.
let me take you to the theater.
And tomorrow night, you must
GATH:
Oh, my.
all track of time.
I have lost
My crew has gone.
I'm the last one here.
I hope that's because
you are enjoying yourself.
I am.
KIM:
Captain!
Excuse me for interrupting,
about something incredible.
but I've just found out
Calm down, Ensign.
What is it?
That platform...
it's a transportation device.
Extremely sophisticated.
It operates on the principle
of folding space.
That's something
that's been theorized,
but no one's ever been able
to develop the technology.
Well, these people have.
I've just been
to Alastria and back.
Alastria is 40,000
light-years away.
spatial trajector.
We call it a
We're able to travel
to all the planets
in this quadrant.
How far can it take you?
Alastria is at the outermost
limits of its range.
Apparently, it's never been used
KIM:
as large as Voyager,
to move anything
but as I understand the
principle of space folding,
the size of the object
isn't relevant.
What do you think?
Would it be possible
to modify your technology
so we could use it?
I tried to tell him.
What is it?
We cannot share our technology.
Once it's out of our control,
it might fall into the hands
of those who would abuse it,
and our Canon of Laws
strictly forbids that.
But we wouldn't abuse it.
KIM:
Don't you see
what it would mean to us?
Please, don't make it
more difficult for me.
I don't enjoy denying you this,
Laws has determined
but our Canon of
our entire system
of values.
To break one of its precepts
everything we believe in.
would undermine
I'm sorry, but there can be
no exceptions to the law.
they're not going to help us.
I can't believe
Some kind of hospitality.
40,000 light-years.
far as we could go,
Even if that's as
it would still knock about
four decades off our trip.
And the possibility exists
that we could reconfigure
the matrix at that point
to take us another
30,000 light-years
Federation space.
right into
Since they've already said no,
this kind of thinking is only
going to make you feel worse.
we've been on the other side
It's the first time
of the fence.
What fence?
of binding principles.
The one that's made
We have our own set of rules,
the Prime Directive.
which includes
have we been in the position
How many times
when some kind of disaster
of refusing to interfere
threatened an alien culture?
It's all very well
to say we do it
an enlightened principle,
on the basis of
but how does that feel
to the aliens?
I'm sure many
of them think
the Prime Directive
is a lousy idea.
Even we think so
sometimes.
I know of many times
when Starfleet personnel
have decided
on strong ethical grounds
to ignore it.
Still, there's a reason why
it's Starfleet's
General Order #1.
a lot more good than harm.
On the whole, it does
Captain,
it occurs to me
that we know little
about the Sikarians.
We cannot assume that their
first refusal is unalterable.
It may be that "no" is simply
a prelude to negotiation.
TORRES:
He's right. Maybe they
can be reasoned with.
CHAKOTAY:
Maybe they
want something.
Maybe they'll bargain.
But what do we
have to offer?
everything they need.
They seem to have
Stories.
Stories are an important part
of their culture.
more than entertainment.
They seem to provide
a measuring rod of values
They're kind of
and beliefs.
We have a huge library
in our data banks.
We could offer them
the whole thing.
All the great literature
of dozens of cultures.
What do you think,
Captain?
Would they
be interested?
They just might be.
From what we've
seen of them,
pleasure-oriented people.
they're a remarkably
They might appreciate
a gift of literature.
to meet with Gath.
I'll arrange
he has the authority
As magistrate,
In the meantime,
to make this decision.
at that trajector platform.
I'm going to take a look
Maybe I can figure out
how it works.
You'll do nothing of
the sort, Lieutenant.
( sighs )
this law is negotiable,
If I find
I'll make every attempt
to get the technology,
but until then, we won't do
anything that might violate
as we understand it.
their Canon of Laws
That's all.
What's wrong?
I just hope she gets it.
She will.
Mmm. Exquisite.
And what did you say
you call it?
Pecan pie.
I must have the recipe.
I'd be happy
to share it with you.
Gath... I want you to know
I understand your reluctance
to share your technology
with us.
We have
similar restrictions,
but I wondered,
would it make any difference
if I gave you my word
that we would destroy
the trajector matrix
as soon as
we'd used it?
I know this will upset
you, but I can't.
I understand, and frankly,
I suspected as much,
but I have a proposal
which might allow you
to obey your laws
and still give us
what we want.
Surely you could use
the trajector to send us.
40,000 light-years
would mean
a great deal to us,
and in return, we're prepared
to offer you something
you might enjoy.
Oh!
A full library
of the Federation's
finest literature.
Literature?
Centuries of stories.
New stories
from diverse cultures.
Stories that fire
the imagination.
You certainly know
how to tempt me,
Captain.
It's certainly possible.
I'll have to meet with the other
magistrates to discuss it.
No one has ever made
a request like that.
I'd like to enjoy
In the meantime,
every bite of, uh, this...
how did you call it?
Pecan pie.
( indistinct chatter )
I finished
the maintenance check
on the shock attenuation
cylinders.
They'll have to be replaced
in another 2,000 hours,
but we'll face that problem
when we come to it.
Seska.
Sorry. I wasn't
concentrating.
What did you say?
You looked a million
light-years away.
Only about 70,000.
No.
My brother's birthday
is in four days.
I'd meet him on Nivoch
Last year, I promised
to celebrate
with him.
I broke my promise.
He'll think
That I'm dead.
What are you doing?
I've been thinking.
The folding of space should
leave a sub-space residue.
we might be a step closer
If we can detect one,
how the trajector works.
to knowing
Look at that
neutrino dispersion pattern.
Could that be the result
of space folding?
Maybe. If the device
neutrino bubble
creates a
around whatever's
being trajected.
If that's the case,
big enough for the ship.
we'd need a bubble
Don't worry,
Lieutenant.
I'm with you on this one.
it doesn't hurt to theorize.
After all,
Right, and
hypothetically,
if we could modify
the deflector array
to emit phased neutrinos,
we could create a
big enough bubble.
Let's give it a try.
In theory, of course.
I don't understand.
Why is it so important
I come here now?
You'll see in a minute.
We're here.
Good evening, Ensign.
Thank you for coming.
What's this about?
to invite you here
I asked Eudana
because I was sure you
would respond to her
look perfectly natural.
and because it would
your collection of literature
I am prepared to accept
for our trajector technology.
in exchange
you're authorized to do?
Is that something
but many people believe
Officially, no,
should be flexible enough
that rules
to meet the needs
of the moment.
There is a great desire here
for new stories,
and I want to be the one
to supply them.
from this arrangement, right?
So you'd stand to benefit
We would both benefit.
I would gain prestige,
and you would gain
40,000 light-years
in your journey home,
possibly more.
This is it, Ensign,
the matrix of
the trajector.
has asked the magistrate
Captain Janeway
to send us 40,000 light-years.
He won't.
He never had any intention
of helping you leave here.
Jaret is right.
EUDANA:
it means to you to get home.
I know how much
listen to him.
Please,
You must believe me
when I tell you
you will make that journey.
this is the only way
Consider my offer.
I'm sure you will decide
it is a fair one.
I don't know what to do.
I know we'd all like to get
that much closer to home,
but I don't think
Captain Janeway
is going to go for getting
the technology like that.
Maybe she will.
After all,
who's making the offer.
it's a Sikarian
But it's not aboveboard.
is only going to deal
The Captain
with an official
representative.
The Captain can see you now.
Bridge to Ensign Kim.
everything you know.
Just tell her
Let her take it from there.
Right.
I'll walk you partway.
I'm headed for bed.
( sighs )
Somehow... I have
a bad feeling about this.
It's just not going
to work out.
Don't you think
that's up to us?
What does that mean?
It means that
we can sit here
and let someone make
the decision for us,
or we can take matters
into our own hands.
We've been offered
the grand prize.
step up and claim it.
All we have to do is
Take the technology?
Without permission?
do you talk like that?
Since when
Do you think permission
is more important
than getting us halfway home?
with the Sikarian magistrate,
The Captain is so infatuated
think straight.
she can't
that she's going to make
We can't trust
the best decision for all of us.
If we do this,
we'll need to use Engineering
to configure the matrix.
It will be a lot easier
we could count on you.
if we knew
a Senior Officer now.
Seska, I am
I have responsibilities.
And the main responsibility
for everyone on this ship
is to try to find a way home.
Captain Janeway made that clear
from the beginning.
That's our primary mission.
Just think about it.
That's all.
Did Jaret explain what he meant
when he said
Gath had no intention
of helping us leave?
No. He just made it clear
that our only choice
was to get the trajector
technology from him.
He may simply want us to believe
that so we would deal with him.
Possibly...
but somehow,
I suspect he's right.
Thank you for coming to me
with this, Ensign.
It may muddy
the situation somewhat,
but it helps me
force the issue.
Dismissed.
Good night, Captain. Lieutenant.
what do I do now?
Oh, Tuvok,
You would seem to
have two options.
Continue to negotiate
with a man
a hidden agenda,
who may have
or deal with a man
who is willing to
defy his own laws.
Not very pretty choices.
At least if you
deal with Jaret,
is being compromised,
it is his law that
not ours.
But does that matter?
I told the crew
when we started this journey
that we'd be a Starfleet crew,
behaving as Starfleet
would expect us to.
That means there's a certain
standard I have to uphold.
Principles, principles.
That's what it comes down to.
my almighty principles?
Do I compromise
But how do I not compromise them
if it involves a chance
to get the crew
more than halfway home?
How do I tell them...
my principles are so important
I would deny them
that opportunity?
the first thing you must do
I believe
is determine whether or not
the trajector to help us.
Gath is willing to use
If that possibility
exists at all,
you must explore it.
You're right.
Thank you, Tuvok.
the other magistrates
Have you spoken with
JANEWAY:
the trajector?
about using
Actually, I haven't.
are traveling now,
Some of them
but I assure you
I will do it.
Oh, I've already seen
all those.
It's becoming a matter
of some urgency.
Oh. Why?
We've imposed on you
for long enough.
Not true.
We welcome you
for as long as you can stay,
and I hope that's
a very long time indeed.
My crew is eager to
continue our journey.
Once they realized
the trajector might bring
us 40,000 light-years
closer to home...
Why are you so consumed
with this desire to get home?
I find it difficult
to understand.
Home... is home.
It's where we belong.
Couldn't you create
a new home here with us?
a more delightful place to live
Can you imagine
where you could pass your time
extracting pleasure
from every moment?
I promise you,
you and I have many
such moments to explore.
Yes, but for how long?
I've seen how quickly
you get tired of
your pleasures.
All that interests you
and unexplored.
is what's new
it becomes commonplace.
After a day or two,
Yes...
permanence...
We prefer
of relationships that endure
the reward
with the passing of time.
and grow deeper
You would lose those notions
if you stayed with us.
and that's why we have to leave.
You may be right,
We have offered you
nothing but hospitality.
with an attack on our beliefs?
Is this how you repay us,
I'm sorry.
I was just trying to illustrate
the differences between us.
being judged like this.
I don't enjoy
Not at all pleasurable.
It's very upsetting.
That's all you really
care about, isn't it?
Your pleasure.
All your hospitality,
your graciousness--
giving us pleasure.
it was never about
to gratify yourselves.
It's all been
We're nothing more than
the latest novelty.
You're hostile and vicious.
the joyousness of our lives.
You would infect
You must leave immediately.
You never had any intention
of helping us, did you?
Of course I did.
I did everything in my power
to persuade you to stay here.
Janeway to Voyager.
One to beam up.
Cancel all shore leave
and recall the away teams.
We've been asked to leave.
Aye, Captain.
I assume that means Gath
will not be assisting us.
any intention of helping us.
I don't think he ever had
strung us along.
He just...
Are you considering
Jaret's offer?
Oh, I wish I could...
but I can't.
Captain, it'll take hours
to get everyone up.
We've got crew members scattered
throughout both hemispheres.
Get them back as quickly
as you can, Commander.
overextended our stay here.
I think we've
I'll be in my ready room.
SESKA:
I've downloaded
the Federation library.
It's all on these chips.
We know the man to contact.
He wants the library,
and he doesn't care
who gives it to him.
B'Elanna, right now
We're under orders...
fighting Cardassians,
our people are still
dying for our cause.
the Demilitarized Zone
Settlers in
are still under attack.
We made a promise, B'Elanna,
that we'd all stick together
until the Zone was safe,
and I intend
to keep that promise.
and two little boys.
I have a wife
I don't want them to grow up
without a father.
I'd do anything to prevent that.
We're not
the only ones.
Everyone wants
to get back.
They're just waiting
for someone to act.
on the theory that the trajector
I've been working
a neutrino envelope.
operates within
I think we can use it
If that's true,
as many times
as we need
until we're all the way home.
Just think... by tomorrow,
we could be there.
All right.
Let's do it.
With shore leave canceled,
the surface undetected?
are we able to get to
We'll have to override
the security lockout,
but that shouldn't
be a problem.
It's not accepting
my security code.
the lockout buffers.
Reinitialize
I did.
It's not working.
Someone's altered
the security subroutine.
Never mind. Beam me down.
Why would anyone do that?
Are you crazy?!
Security will find you out
before you get there.
the security subroutines.
I altered
Any attempt to override
the lockout
would have alerted me
to your presence here.
Voyager's library
Is this
which you intended to trade
for the trajector technology?
Yes.
When I attempted
to download it,
I noticed it had
already been accessed.
You were going
to download it?
I will make the exchange
with Jaret Otel.
Return to your stations.
Do what you can
to prepare the ship
for the matrix.
Energize.
Mr. Tuvok is
on the surface now, Captain.
He says the remaining
away teams
should be on board
within 15 minutes.
supplies secured?
Are all the food
the last of the crew gets back,
Aye, Captain. As soon as
we'll be ready
to leave.
Bridge to Engineering.
Torres here.
We'll be leaving orbit
within minutes.
Ready all propulsion systems.
We're ready now, Captain.
Where's Tuvok?
He'll be here.
We certainly won't leave
without him.
Well, what's keeping him?
Calm down.
You're going to draw
attention to yourself.
Do not attempt
to activate the device
to Captain Janeway.
until I've spoken
What are you doing?
not to activate it.
He said
I'm not.
I'm just going to try
the interface simulation.
We don't even know
if it will interface.
We can give ourselves
a head start by testing it now.
All right.
But just a simulation.
It's working.
I was right.
It operates within
a neutrino envelope.
The trajector field is bigger
than anything we've created
by ten orders
of magnitude.
To get a field that size,
you'd need an amplifier
as big as a planet.
I don't understand.
kind of amplification?
How do they get that
I'll show you.
Sikaris has a mantle
of tetrahedral quartz
20 kilometers thick.
The crystalline structure
of the mantle
serves to focus and amplify
the trajector field.
the power transfer occurs,
If that's how
we lose the ability to traject.
then once we leave orbit,
We don't have time to test it.
We'll have to try it now
or forget it.
any compatibility problems--
Do it.
If there are
This is our only chance.
Then we can abort.
Bridge to Engineering.
JANEWAY:
Torres here.
We're ready to leave orbit.
Thrusters on-line.
Aye, Captain.
We have to do something.
( beeping )
Mr. Paris,
take us out of orbit.
4,000 kph.
Aye, Captain.
Thrusters are off line.
There's no response.
Janeway to Engineering.
What's going on, Lieutenant?
We've got a phase variance
in plasma conduit 3.
I'll have to check it out before
we can engage thrusters.
When did this problem show up?
Just now, Captain.
I'll have it fixed in a minute.
It's only a slight variance.
Keep me advised.
All right.
The matrix is activating.
The trajector field is forming.
And it's amplifying.
CAREY:
Look how fast it's expanding.
of the quartz mantle.
That's the effect
at full field strength.
We're nearly
This is going to work.
( alarm sounding )
What is it?
is becoming unstable.
The plasma manifold
I can compensate for that.
The manifold is being bombarded
CAREY:
from the trajector field.
by anti-neutrinos
Anti-neutrinos?
for the space folding process.
The must be the catalyst
It's not working.
I can't compensate
for the instability.
There's no way to compensate for
a field that size.
CAREY:
( deep thud )
an unstable plasma manifold.
Captain, I'm showing
We're headed for a breach.
Bridge to Torres.
What's happening?
a warp core breach up here.
We're reading
We're on it, Captain.
No time to talk.
Shut down the matrix!
It's not responding!
I can't!
It's fused!
CAREY:
at 43 million Kelvin!
Plasma temperature
Carey, get everybody out!
All right, people, let's go!
Right now!
Move it out!
Move out! Come on!
Let's go! Right now!
Let's go, come on!
Move it out! Fast!
Keep moving!
Right now!
I can't unlock it.
The command matrix is sealed.
at 50 million Kelvin!
Plasma temperature
bombardment has stopped.
Anti-neutrino
Plasma temperature
dropping.
We didn't anticipate
anti-neutrinos.
The trajector could
never be compatible
with Federation technology.
I'll start erasing
the sensor logs.
We can blame it
on the phase discrepancy.
No.
to cover this up.
We're not going
Are you crazy?
to take the blame for this.
We don't have
But we're going to.
We disobeyed orders,
gambling it would pay off.
It didn't.
And now we just can't pretend
like nothing happened.
I don't understand.
There's no need for this.
if you don't get it, Seska,
I'm sorry
but it has something
to do with, um...
to live with yourself.
with being able
That doesn't sound like you.
You've changed.
If that's true...
I take it as a compliment.
I take full responsibility
for what happened.
but I was the Senior Officer,
There were others involved,
and the culpability
is mine.
Lieutenant Torres is not
precisely correct, Captain.
She was not
the Senior Officer involved.
I was.
You?
It was I who made the exchange.
The Federation library
for the trajector matrix.
I will deal with you
in a moment.
of throwing you in the brig
I don't have the luxury
for the rest of this voyage.
I need you.
I need every person
on this ship.
But I want you to know
you have disappointed me.
how very deeply
any further transgressions,
If there are
even a minor one...
be an officer on this crew.
you will no longer
Is that clear?
Yes, ma'am.
Dismissed.
I don't even know
where to start.
to explain to me
I want you
could be involved in this.
how you, of all people,
It is quite simple, Captain.
You have made it clear
on many occasions
that your highest goal
for the crew
is to get them home.
But in this instance,
would not allow you
your standards
to violate
Sikarian law.
Someone had to spare you
the ethical dilemma.
I was the logical choice,
and so I chose to act.
You did it for me...
because you knew I couldn't.
I accept the consequences
of my actions.
I expect to lose my commission
and to be court-martialed
when we return
to Federation space.
my most valued officers...
You are one of
and you are my friend.
you understand me here.
It is vital that
I need you.
that I can count on you.
But I also need to know
You are my counsel,
the one I turn to when I need
my moral compass checked.
this relationship for years,
We have forged
and I depend on it.
I realize you made
a sacrifice for me...
but it's not one
I would have allowed you
to make.
to justify almost anything.
You can use logic
That's its power...
and its flaw.
bring your logic to me.
From now on...
Don't act on it behind my back.
You have my word.
My logic was not in error...
but I was.
Dismissed.